docs: gatsby for apps - data fetching (#19786)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/recipes.md

- [Gatsby image fragments](/docs/gatsby-image/#image-query-fragments)
- [Example repo with co-located data](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/gatsbygram)

### Querying data client-side with `fetch`

> Data doesn't only have to be queried at build time and remain solely static. You can query data at runtime the same way you can fetch data in a regular React app.

Author: The other recipes on querying data didn't have any prerequisites but I can see something like knowing you need a `.js` file being helpful.

- [Gatsby image fragments](/docs/gatsby-image/#image-query-fragments)
- [Example repo with co-located data](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/examples/gatsbygram)

### Querying data client-side with `fetch`

Data doesn't only have to be queried at build time and remain solely static. You can query data at runtime the same way you can fetch data in a regular React app.

#### Prerequisites

> - A JavaScript file like a page component: `index.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [A Gatsby Site](/docs/quick-start/)
- A page component, such as `index.js`
```

#### Directions

1. In a file with a React component defined, like a page in `src/pages` or a layout component, import React hooks for `useState` and `useEffect`.

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React, { useState, useEffect } from "react"
```

> 2. Inside the component, wrap a function to fetch data in a `useEffect` hook so it will asynchronously retrieve data when the component mounts in the browser client. Then, `await` the result with the `fetch` API, and call the set function from the `useState` hook (in this case `setStarsCount`) to save the state variable (`starCount`) to the data returned from `fetch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Inside the component, wrap a function to fetch data in a `useEffect` hook so it will asynchronously retrieve data when the component mounts in the browser client. Then, `await` the result with the `fetch` API, and call the set function from the `useState` hook (in this case `setStarsCount`) to save the state variable (`starsCount`) to the data returned from `fetch`.
```
